C# is an object-oriented programming language and part of the .NET family from Microsoft. The most recent version is C# 4.0 and it is part of Visual Studio 2010. C# is intended to be a simple, modern, general-purpose, object-oriented programming language. Its development team is led by Anders Hejlsberg. C# is very similar to C++ and Java. C# is developed by Microsoft and works only on the Windows platform. C# is based on the .NET Framework (pronounced “dot net”). .NET is a software framework that runs primarily on Microsoft Windows.

C++ is a compiled, general-purpose object-oriented programming language. It is regarded as an intermediate-level language, as it comprises a combination of both high-level and low-level language features. It was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup in 1979 as an extension to C. C++ is one of the most popular programming languages and its application domains include systems software (such as Microsoft Windows), application software, device drivers, embedded software, high-performance server and client applications, and entertainment software such as video games. Several groups provide both free and proprietary C++ compiler software.

Java is a programming language originally developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems (now owned by Oracle Corporation) and released in 1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystems' Java platform. The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++ but has a simpler object model and fewer low-level facilities. Java is currently one of the most popular programming languages in use, and is widely used from application software to web applications.

Visual Basic (VB) is the third-generation event-driven programming language and integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft. The first version appeared in 1991. Visual Basic is relatively easy to learn and use and it is a good language for beginners. Visual Basic was derived from BASIC and enables the rapid application development (RAD) of graphical user interface (GUI) applications, access to databases using Data Access Objects, Remote Data Objects, or ActiveX Data Objects, and creation of ActiveX controls and objects. Scripting languages such as VBA (Visual Basic for Applications) and VBScript are syntactically similar to Visual Basic, but perform differently.

Perl is a high-level, general-purpose, interpreted, dynamic programming language. Perl was originally developed by Larry Wall in 1987 as a general-purpose Unix scripting language to make report processing easier. Since then, it has undergone many changes and revisions and become widely popular amongst programmers.

Python is an interpreted high-level programming language and object-oriented programming and structured programming are fully supported. The reference implementation of Python (CPython) is free and open source software and has a community-based development model. In addition Python has alternative implementations. Python interpreters are available for many operating systems, and Python programs can be packaged into stand-alone executable code for many systems using various tools.

PHP is a general-purpose scripting language originally designed for web development to produce dynamic web pages (server-side scripting). For this purpose, PHP code is embedded into the HTML source document and interpreted by a web server which generates the web page document. PHP can be deployed on most web servers and as a standalone interpreter, on almost every operating system and platform free of charge. PHP was originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995. PHP is installed on more than 20 million websites and 1 million web servers including Facebook.